README.md, before:

# Postgres Database Migration

## Notes on building `Dockerfile`

When building the docker image `update-ca-certificates` may cause warnings, it should not be an issue according to https://github.com/gliderlabs/docker-alpine/issues/30

## Layout

```bash
/db
┣ migrations/
┃ ┣ 20181017194326_create_team_table.sql
┃ ┣ 20181017194336_create_user_table.sql
┃ ┗ 20181017194344_create_membership_table.sql
┗ seed/
  ┣ _order
  ┣ Membership.csv
  ┣ Team.csv
  ┗ User.csv
```

Using:

```bash
./add-migrations.sh this is the latest and greatest migration
```

to add a new migration script. Will result in a new script file being created in `db/migrations/yyyymmddhhmmss_this_is_the_latest_and_greatest_migration.sql` where yyyymmddhhmmss is the current local timestamp.

## Environment Variables

| Name              | Required | Default     | Comment                                                            |
|-------------------|:--------:|-------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|
| PGDATABASE        |    YES   | n/a         | **MUST** be set to the name of the database                        |
| PGHOST            |    YES   | n/a         | **MUST** be set to the host (url/ip)                               |
| PGPORT            |     -    | 5432        | **MAY** be overridden to use a different port                      |
| PGUSER            |    YES   | n/a         | **MUST** be set to the database user                               |
| PGPASSWORD        |    YES   | n/a         | **MUST** be set to the database user password                      |
| PGSSLMODE         |     -    | verify-full | **MAY** be set to *disable* for local development                  |
| DEBUG             |     -    | *unset*     | **MAY** be set to any value (=1) to enable script debugging        |
| LOCAL_DEVELOPMENT |     -    | *unset*     | **MAY** be set to any value (=1) for local development (see below) |

## Local development

Run

```bash
docker-compose up --build
```
Change the environment values in the `docker-compose.yml` file.

* Enable local development using `LOCAL_DEVELOPMENT=1`.
    *  Will recreate the database from scratch and run any migrations as well as seed the database.
* Disable SSL mode using `PGSSLMODE=disable`.

### Seeding

To seed the database for local development:

1. create a `seed` folder in the `db` folder, according to the layout above.
1. create one or more `.csv` files
    * the name of the file must match a table in the database (remember Postgres is case-sensitive like Linux).
    * file **must** contain a header
    * all fields (including headers) **must** be separated by commas (`,`).
    * fields **must** be in the same order as the columns in the table schema.
1. create an `_order` file
    * each line **must** contain the name of the CSV-files from the previous step.
    * **only** include the name of the file (case-sensitive and with extension), **not** the path.

*To seed the database for production use is out-of-scope for this README, but consider using regular migration scripts and insert statements, or restoring a prepopulated database.*

### Debugging

* Enable debugging by setting environment variable `DEBUG` (e.g. `DEBUG=1`).
* To inspect the final generated migration script it is possible to mount a volumne to `/tmp` in the docker container, like:
    ```yaml
    volumes:
    - ${PWD}/db/output:/tmp
    ```

Commit message:

add git release and installation script

README.md, after:

# Postgres Database Migration

## Installation

### Bash

The following will download the latest version:

```
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dfds/pgup/master/install.sh | sh -s -
```

## Notes on building `Dockerfile`

When building the docker image `update-ca-certificates` may cause warnings, it should not be an issue according to https://github.com/gliderlabs/docker-alpine/issues/30

## Layout

```bash
/db
┣ migrations/
┃ ┣ 20181017194326_create_team_table.sql
┃ ┣ 20181017194336_create_user_table.sql
┃ ┗ 20181017194344_create_membership_table.sql
┗ seed/
  ┣ _order
  ┣ Membership.csv
  ┣ Team.csv
  ┗ User.csv
```

Using:

```bash
./add-migrations.sh this is the latest and greatest migration
```

to add a new migration script. Will result in a new script file being created in `db/migrations/yyyymmddhhmmss_this_is_the_latest_and_greatest_migration.sql` where yyyymmddhhmmss is the current local timestamp.

## Environment Variables

| Name              | Required | Default     | Comment                                                            |
|-------------------|:--------:|-------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|
| PGDATABASE        |    YES   | n/a         | **MUST** be set to the name of the database                        |
| PGHOST            |    YES   | n/a         | **MUST** be set to the host (url/ip)                               |
| PGPORT            |     -    | 5432        | **MAY** be overridden to use a different port                      |
| PGUSER            |    YES   | n/a         | **MUST** be set to the database user                               |
| PGPASSWORD        |    YES   | n/a         | **MUST** be set to the database user password                      |
| PGSSLMODE         |     -    | verify-full | **MAY** be set to *disable* for local development                  |
| DEBUG             |     -    | *unset*     | **MAY** be set to any value (=1) to enable script debugging        |
| LOCAL_DEVELOPMENT |     -    | *unset*     | **MAY** be set to any value (=1) for local development (see below) |

## Local development

Run

```bash
docker-compose up --build
```
Change the environment values in the `docker-compose.yml` file.

* Enable local development using `LOCAL_DEVELOPMENT=1`.
    *  Will recreate the database from scratch and run any migrations as well as seed the database.
* Disable SSL mode using `PGSSLMODE=disable`.

### Seeding

To seed the database for local development:

1. create a `seed` folder in the `db` folder, according to the layout above.
1. create one or more `.csv` files
    * the name of the file must match a table in the database (remember Postgres is case-sensitive like Linux).
    * file **must** contain a header
    * all fields (including headers) **must** be separated by commas (`,`).
    * fields **must** be in the same order as the columns in the table schema.
1. create an `_order` file
    * each line **must** contain the name of the CSV-files from the previous step.
    * **only** include the name of the file (case-sensitive and with extension), **not** the path.

*To seed the database for production use is out-of-scope for this README, but consider using regular migration scripts and insert statements, or restoring a prepopulated database.*

### Debugging

* Enable debugging by setting environment variable `DEBUG` (e.g. `DEBUG=1`).
* To inspect the final generated migration script it is possible to mount a volumne to `/tmp` in the docker container, like:
    ```yaml
    volumes:
    - ${PWD}/db/output:/tmp
    ```
